This project demonstrates how a  stable circular orbit emerges from Newton’s law of gravitation by numerically simulating the motion of a planet around a central mass
According to Newton’s law of gravitation, all masses attract each other through gravitational force. The more mass a object has, the more acceleration it will have pointing towards its center, g = GM/R², where 'M' is the mass of the object.
It may seem that planets should fall in the Sun or moon should fall in the Earth due to gravitational force, but what's stopping it is the planet's sideways velocity.
How they got the velocity lies in their history. Both stars and planets form from giant clouds of gas and dust(nebula). If more mass gathers for hydrogen fusion under gravity, star forms, otherwise a planet.
Anyways, nothing in the universe is still. All the particles of the gas clouds have some tiny random motion from thermal energy and turbulence. When these are summed up, the net angular momentum is small but not zero. Angular momentum is conserved as there is nothing to provide external Torque or even friction to take away energy. Angular momentum, vec.L = vec.r × m × vec.v (I wish I could put the vector symbols 💀), where 'r' means the distance from the axis of rotation (or center of mass).
So what happens with the velocity after stars and planets form?
Every particle in the cloud has a 'v'. From the center it has a distance 'r'. When collapses, the distance from the center to the particle or 'r' decreases. But to keep angular momentum, vec.L = vec.r × m × vec.v (or simply L = mvr) conserved, the 'v' increases, and as the planet didn't collapse that means the velocity has a magnitude naturally for which the equation GMm/r² = mv²/r is true where GMm/r² is the gravitational force (the centripetal one) and mv²/r is the centrifugal force balancing the position.
Now since it has sideways velocity (inertia), even if the star pulls the planet bending its direction it is moving forward so the height literally resets and the star again bends it a little.
Calculations/ Math tools/ Formulas used here – 
1. v = u + at (where due to rotation the 'direction' is constantly changing each time interval NOT the magnitude. I used t = 0.001 s, meaning it determines velocity at every 0.001 s).
2. s = s + vt (instantaneous)
3. GM, r(1.0,0.0) [Let's say that the distance is 1 AU from the Sun to the planet]. For the planet to orbit, GMm/r² = mv²/r or, GM/r = v² or, GM = 4pi² [ v = 2.pi.r/T, T = 1 year, r = 1 AU]
4. Initial velocity (whose 'magnitude' remains constant), v² = GM (From the above equation) or, v = 2pi.
5. acceleration (largest one 💀), all our vectors were like pointing from the Sun to the planet so when r is (1.0,0.0) it means planet is 1.0 unit from the Sun. There will be a minus sign before the acceleration since it is pointing towards the Sun.                                     F = GMm/r² or, ma = GMm/r² or, a = GM/r² [But this represents the number only, we need the vector. vec.r/r is the unit vector of the distance because it only represents the direction without changing the value. So, a = - GM × vec.r/ r³. Since direction of 'r' is constantly changing, we cannot simply put a minus before GM/r², but as acceleration is opposite to 'r' no matter what, we put minus before GM × vec.r/ r³. Therefore, a = - GM × vec.r/ r³, in the denominator 'r' is scalar which has been calculated in the code as "dist = np.linalg.norm(r). In my code, a = - GM*r/dist**3.
*A realization* remember when I talked about this relation                "GMm/r² = mv²/r" in the explanation part? It was actually my realization by running the code. When for the magnitude of the tangential velocity this equation becomes true, the celestial body goes in an orbit.  Too slow falls inwards, too fast goes outwards. I got the understanding when I experimented running the simulation by changing velocity and position and forgetting to recalculate the magnitude of new position and velocity for the equation to be true. And then I was wondering why it's falling inwards and again in another simulation why it's going outwards. This made me realize that I just knew this relation but didn't understand fully waht it meant!

